---
layout: post
title: "3 Choices?"
date: 2014-08-25 15:00:00
categories: other
---
What should I focus my time on? It's definitely not worth my time to try to break into cs, consulting, and ibanking. I'm just wasting my time.

I started thinking a lot about it after reading some "a day at..." and also the comparisons done by managementconsulted.

###Effort:###

Being a programmer comes more natural. Though, I enjoy the thrill that comes with a lot of the finance work. Consulting has the perks of traveling, and the stuff I could learn seems endless.

###Salary:###

Analyst at GS - $125k
Associate at McKinsey - up to $100,000 + 12% to Retirement or ($10,000 to RRSP in Canada)
Programmer at Google - Aprox. 125k + Retirement

These figures are average salary and includes bonus and stock options.
Investment banking has the longest hours, but does taper off as I move up, and the pay increases some what exponentially.
Consulting also see a good increase, and less grunt work. But, it's definitely not comparable to Investment banking. However, considering the health and retirement benefits, it's pretty damn good.
I have no clue how the increase is as a developer. But seeing the level increase on glass door, it seems pretty substantial, comparable to consulting.

###Hours:###
Consulting might be the worst in that I'm not home a lot of the time. It seems that consulting doesn't get a lot of down time, while in Investment Banking, that's possible. Programming as it the best. 9-5 work days.

Consulting: 10-12hrs
Investment Banking: 14-16hrs, but gets better as you climb
Software: 8hrs

###Exit Options:###
No doubt consulting is the best. I get to learn a lot in consulting, interpersonal skills, presentation skills, networking. Yeah, working in consulting lets me network with important people. I think consulting is the most interesting.

Investment banking opens me to lots of finance jobs; that's it. Consulting often opens up similar doors in the finance world.

Programmer is a completely different beast. I suppose I can climb the corporate ladder, develop new tools/software. I can go to other companies/industries to work on different projects, or find or go to a startup.

###Other Remarks:###
At lot of this was sparked by the podcast on Planet Money. They talked about best paid and worst paid majors. They pointed out petroleum engineering degree pays the best. I'd think since people realize that major pays the best, why doesn't everyone go for it; why does everyone go for the worst paying major Psychology? It could be that engineering, particularly petroleum engineering is a niche field and to be successful at it is difficult. Not many people are good at applied mathematics. Much like, why are programmers compensated so well? Well it seems like anyone can be a banker and a lot of people want to be. Simple supply and demand. Not that many people are qualified to be a programmer, or a good programmer to be hired by Google.

I think I'd see programming as less of work and more as fun. Not sure how I feel about consulting. But regardless where I work, I can always find joy in it. That's one of my strength I guess, I'm lucky.

I'm not too worried about the hours. I'm young. I can handle it. But what about when I'm 35, 40? What are my options? Also, can I even get in Goldman Sachs or Mckinsey?